As our team was composed of 5 people rather than 4, work was distributed across far more people. Originally we took a far more rigid approach to dividing workload where each person takes 7 or 8 functions and implements them. However this changed through the course of the assignment to accommodate various members skill sets and workloads. To allow for this flexible approach there was a need for constant communication and tracking of what each member was doing. This was accomplished through various agile approaches such as asynchronous standups, the various updates tracked by the task board, some of gitlabs built in features and a constant use of social media in order to understand what each person was doing and not overlap work.

The use of asynchronous standups is somewhat controversial when compared to a more traditional face to face standup and for us it had both positive and negative draws. Asynchronous standups were constructive as some of us work and have long commutes so it allowed for us to state what we had done on a more consistent basis then we would have had we gone for a normal standup. It also allowed us to not have to go through the hassle of finding a time that worked well for everyone. This was especially useful as we had 5 people instead of 4 so finding a mesh of times that would have worked would have been that little bit harder. However as a team we found that asynchronous standups also have some failings. As we are stating what we have done at different times we often found that questions wouldn't be asked and there wasn’t as much of a back and forth due to some messages being earlier or later in the day. We also found some standups were missed and while we didn’t ever have two people working over the top of each other we came close a few times and over a longer period it is likely that this may happen. We also found that standups wouldn’t be as frequent and that some things may have been missed out that wouldn’t have if it was a traditional standup.

However overall even though asynchronous standups have their drawbacks we found that it was much more convenient than a normal standup. Additionally to help mediate these issues we implemented other agile approaches to pick up the slack. One of these was the implementation and use of a taskboard. The task board enabled us to track exactly who was doing what at a time, helping mediate the risk of two people doing the same thing and wasting their time overlapping each others work. Additionally we found ourselves using a large amount of columns in order to further organise our work into their function stubs so that each member could more accurately keep up with the work that was being done. This also allowed a large amount of flexibility in our formally rigid workload layout as it allowed us to become more adaptive to changes that we came across in the form of; varying skill levels, member workloads in the form of university workload and other work. Overall the task board helped take some of the slack caused by asynchronous workloads and enabled us to work when spread apart and working at different times.

However while the task board split up work there still needed to be some sort of overview and confirmation by other members on finished code alongside. Furthermore, the work was setup in a way so people could be working on the same file at the same time. To mitigate both these issues the use of gitlabs inbuilt branching system was essential. Gitlabs branches enabled us to go through someone's work and had to be approved before they could push it to the main ‘master’ file. This was done to reduce the risk of that function bringing up issues and having to debug the whole file, reducing overall work time. Additionally it allowed the team to be far more flexible as we didn't have to worry about working on the same thing and then running into issues when later combining it. Overall our use of gits inbuilt branching system saved us time and allowed us to become far more adaptable when someone came across an issue as it isolates the issue from everyone else’s work.

Overall the implementation and use of agile approaches enabled us to improve both our work speed individually and as a group. It also resulted in a far more flexible work structure then what we had originally decided to go into stage two with allowing us to work with far more efficiency. While we found that some approaches had both their positives and negatives, it became apparent that through the implementation of several agile approaches these cons had less of an impact. Going into stage three we believe we will continue to implement more agile approaches as we have found they enable teamwork and allow all members to do better.

During iteration 3, we realised midway through that there were a few functions we'd forgotten to allocate to team members at the start. Asynchronous meetings helped in this regard as said functions could be allocated to anyone who was present on the spot, so as to not delay development until the next scheduled meeting. For example, standup/active, which was quickly claimed by Jake. There were several instances where obstacles would pop up during development, be it vagueness in the spec or a member being unsure of how to implement something. Asynchronous meetings again helped in this regard as we were able to collaborate on and discuss things we individually weren't certain of, and make any necessary assumptions as group decisions.
